>> Kent C. Dodds: Alrighty, so
with that let's go ahead and
move on to integration tests.
So like I was saying before,
the distinction between integration and
unit tests can be a little bit fuzzy.
If you wanna be totally purist unit
tester than a unit, like if you consider
a unit to be a module, it will mock
every single one of it's dependencies.
And that is your unit that you're testing,
whereas an integration test
will not mock anything.
I'm kind of loosey-goosey in the middle.
I pretty much I just care
about getting confidence, but
there is a certain point where I say, yes
this is absolutely an integration test.
And from a client side
application perspective,
that's like let's take this page and
test this page.
Maybe that's still happening in Node,
you're not pulling it up in a browser or
anything necessarily when
you're using jsdom in Node.
So rendering a component that's higher
level would kind of be an integration test
in my mind.
On the server side,
that would be starting up the server and
hitting it with requests.
So that's what our tests are going to do.
And in an express server you have
your routes that you define.
So that's where our integration
tests are going to live.
If we're talking about colocating tests,
that just makes the most sense to me for
these kinds of integration tests is
to put it right next to the routes.
So if we look at our index,
we have our router that we're
adding different endpoints to,
or different subroutes to.
And so we have the setupRoutes, we have
the setupAuthRoutes, userRoutes, and
postRoutes.
And these files are responsible for
setting up those routes on
each of these subrouters, and
then we mount those onto different
parts of our application.
So for us, we have the user routes and
on the root of the user route,
we'll have getUsers.
Then you have this authMiddleware for
when you're trying to get a specific user.
And if you're authorized, then you'll
get more information about this user.
And then you can put,
if you're authorized,
then you can update a user,
and then delete.
If you're authorized,
you can delete a user.
Okay, so this is actually what we're
going to be testing is this flow.
I want to be able to register an account,
and
I want to get the user that I just
created and log in as that user.
And I want to update that user and
then I want to delete that user.
And we could do this in
a bunch of different tests.
And in some scenarios,
that might make more sense,
but if we can do it in a single
test that will actually
save us a fair amount of
extra setup with test.
And so
that's what we're going to be doing,
is doing all of this in a single test.
But the first thing we need
to do when testing a server,
as an integration test,
is we need to start up that server.
And sometimes starting up your server
could require a fair amount of time.
It takes a while to boot up your server.
And so you might do that in a separate
process before you start your tests on
that server.
But if you can get away with it,
try to have the same process that's
running your test start the server.
In a Node context, we can start
the Node server with Node APIs.
The reason that I say that is because
then, can instrument all of that code for
coverage.
And now you can have code coverage
on your integration tests for
your server which is really handy.
In addition,
you'll get better error messages.
If the server throws an error,
you'll be able to see that better if the
same process that's running the test is
the one that started the server
up in the first place.
And so to do that, here we have our index.
This is the entry for our server.
It's not doing a whole
lot because most of our
modules in this project are pure modules.
And so it's just getting things started.
It starts out, our server, isProduction
then we're gonna use the port.
Otherwise we'll specify
the port is undefined and
then it will actually default
to a random port for us.
So if we look at that startServer.
We'll detect the port,
we'll figure out a good port for us.
It sets a whole bunch of stuff up,
sets up the routes and
then it does a whole bunch of weird stuff
to make Express work with Promises.
Thanks a lot Express.
>> Kent C. Dodds: So anyway,
this is actually the function that
we are going to call in our test.
We'll call this function
to start our server up and
then we'll have that server to
make these requests against.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
start with that test.
So yeah, we already saw this.
We're initializing our API
a little bit differently, but
the same thing kind of applies.
This is actually a little bit better
because this port actually can be dynamic,
and so we're getting whatever the server's
port actually ended up being.
We're still closing.
In this case we are initializing
the database before every single one
because we have this extra test
that wants to get all the users.
But yeah, so we are going to create some
registration data with the login form.
We pass that data to
the auth register endpoint.
And then map that the user
property of the response data.
So that gets us our testUser and
we want to make sure that our testUser's
user name, the user we get back from
the registration is the same as
the one that we registered with.
We can't do anymore verification
than that because I wouldn't
want them to send me back my password,
that would be pretty annoying.
So then we have this read where
it's an unauthenticated read for
the user that we just created.
We want to make sure that
because it's unauthenticated,
that we get back this test user, but
that test user doesn't have a token.
Because I wouldn't want people who
make unauthenticated requests to my
user to get my token.
And so then we are going to
create a new instance of axios
that is authenticated and
this is how we do that.
Your mileage may vary,
however you do authentication,
but the general idea is let's
create a mechanism by which
we can make authenticated requests.
And now that's interesting,
that should be authAPI.
The reason that actually worked
is cuz there's a bug in axios,
that shouldn't work.
And I'm pretty sure that there may be a
new version where that bug has been fixed.
Yeah, so then we're gonna make an
authenticated request to the user's API,
map that to the user so this is actually
the user object from the response data.
And make sure that when I make
an authenticator request,
I get the same response that I got when I
registered the user in the first place.
And then we can update, so
we'll make this updates object.
We'll put to that endpoint
with the authorized API.
And then we'll map that to user to
get the user and we want it to match.
So yeah, we want the updated
test user to match the updates.
So it's gonna have the same user name.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, and then we
can delete with the auth API and make.
And in this case,
an actual implementation the delete
will send back the user that we deleted.
So we can verify the deleted users
the same as the one we just updated.
So our most fresh version of that user.
And then we can verify that.
If we try to read again,
it's gonna give us a 404.
So there are a couple of things
to kind of pull out from
this demonstration of an integration test.
First of all,
all of this is happening in a single test.
And before our let's say for
example, here,
before we had the tools that
we do today this might be
kind of a bad idea because all you
would see is user cred failed.
That won't be super helpful.
But with the error messages that we
have now we can see exactly which
one of these assertions failed.
We can go to line 33 that's the one that
failed, its error message is much better.
And so the ergonomics of that are just so
much better because the alternative would
be, like,
we have a whole bunch of logic in it.
Before each test we're going to create
a new user and do all this extra stuff.
Instead we can just do it all at once.
Actually in this way,
you can kind of think of it as somebody
who is using the software to test it.
No user is gonna go in and register and
then delete their account
immediately thereafter.
Update and then delete it.
But if you are a tester testing some
software, you might go register and
then try to get that user and
then log in and update then delete.
So we can do all that in a single test.
Another thing to note is that we're
pretty much doing the happy path here.
We have one set half
right here at the end.
I don't even know if sat path
is something people say, but
I like to say it cuz we got happy path.
So we have this one kind
of educause situation here.
We're not doing a whole lot
of educause testing in here.
We could but
I don't think that would give me any more
confidence than to do those as unit tests.
And so for
most of the time my educases are going
to be covered by lower level tests.
Whereas the the happier
situation are gonna be covered
by these higher level tests.
Because there is a significant
difference with regard to how
how complicated these things are to set
up and run and to write and maintain.
Versus a unit test of a smaller component.
Those are normally easier to maintain.
And so spending a lot of time dealing
with edge cases at the integration
test level when you could just as
easily do it at the unit test level,
doesn't make a lot of sense.
So I generally do most of my
edge case testing lower level.
And yeah, so that's pretty much it for
the integration test.
Does anybody have any
questions about that?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, so when I'm doing,
integration testing,
one of the first things I do is I
figure out what are all the different-
>> Kent C. Dodds: Help you
paths and paths.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
the most extremes in each possible
direction based on what the data might
look like.
And I'll run it through all of those
possible scenarios because that's the edge
of work.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah,
yeah, that's a fair point.
Because generally your happy
path is gonna stay happy,
because that's what developers are using
as they're going through and stuff.
But if you take a step back and
think, what do I really wanna
make sure never ever breaks?
It's normally the happy path,
I don't want that to break.
I wanna make sure that a user can
go through the the register and
they can add an item to their cart,
and they can check out with that item.
That's a happy path that I
never want to break, and so
I will definitely have a test for that.
Like if the process of, like I add
something to my cart, and then I go back.
I make a change and that's no longer,
like we're out of the quantity, or
whatever of that and
then I try to check out.
And something with that breaks you don't
want that to break either, for sure.
And those are the kinds
of things that often do.
But if that part breaks you're going to
affect a fraction of the users than if
your happy path breaks.
So if you're trying to decide to do one or
the other I would always
do the happy path.
But normally you can do both.
And I would like you said,
I would suggest people do both.
But whether the sad path is covered by
an integration test or a unit test.
Or whether these edge tests are covered
by integration unit It kind of depends.
Can you reasonably accomplish recovering
the SAD path with a lower level test?
If you can, I would put that there.
>> Speaker 2: So let me clarify.
What I guess I am thinking of is same
path, different data to, in part, validate
that the contract with the server is being
honored the way that it was documented.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Hm.
Yeah.
So yeah,
I'd be totally cool with that, too.
So like if you're saying that like all
the tests will look pretty much the same,
except the data will be different?
Is that what you were suggesting?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Absolutely.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yep.
So what I would do in that situation, and
that also makes sense, is I would
probably use that just in case thing, and
just have a bunch of cases.
All of these should work
with the happy path.
You get, with integration tests,
often, they're more expensive.
We've got, like, a JavaScript
module that is, like, our database,
like, it doesn't take any time to
start up the database and all that.
And so we could add millions of tests and
I mean millions of tests
that take a while.
But you'd add like dozens and
dozens of tests, it wouldn't take long.
You got a bunch of those and
you're starting to get into
situations where you're like,
well do we really need to run all these
tests on CI, and maybe you don't.
Maybe you just run those nightly or
something like that.
But I totally agree,
I don't see any reason why you couldn't
just add additional tests just to say,
we these subtle changes it's
should still actually work.
I'm glad you mentioned that.
Anyone else?
Yeah, Peter.
>> Speaker 3: Can you talk a little
bit about how a test like this,
I'm curious how a test like
this that like range across
your code base impact your code coverage.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, if I understand
you correctly, that's a good question.
Even if I don't,
it's probably a good question too.
Yeah, with integration tests you most
definitely are covering a lot more of
your code.
Because we are starting out
the server within this process,
Jess can actually instrument that code for
coverage.
Lots of times I've seen integration tests
where you start at the server here and
you start up your test and you hit that
server, and you can't cover your code.
Well, there are tools, but it's pretty
hard to set up those tools to cover a code
for a server that you start
up in a different process.
But I only care a little bit
about the code coverage report.
It's a helpful metric, but
it's not like an end-all be-all.
So I'm not gonna make critical
decisions based off it.
But yeah, so
in general, your integration test,
you're gonna get a lot more code coverage.
But as I was saying before,
I don't normally use integration tests
to test Like these edge cases, because you
can cover those with lower level tests.
So with the integration test,
you'll get a lot of code coverage.
But you'll miss out on
some of these edge cases,
like if random edge case then do this,
you'll miss code coverage there.
But then you can easily pick
that up with the unit test.
>> Speaker 3: Sure, and I guess that gives
you a way to see what you're not covering
with you integration test.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yep, exactly.
>> Speaker 3: So
I guess I'm kinda of missing.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yep, go ahead.
>> Speaker 3: If you're coverage
report has all this green
because of your integration tasks, right?
Is that gonna give you a false
sense of confidence that hey,
all this code is covered?
How do you know what then you need to
go back and add some unit tests for?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah,
that's a good question.
The question generally is about,
well, okay, so
it sounds like my integration test and
my unit test have some overlap.
What's the point in unit testing if
my integration test can actually
cover all that stuff?
Is that what you're kind of asking about?
>> Speaker 3: No,
if you're using code coverage as kind of
like a sense of, okay,
what needs attention,
where do I need to write some more tests?
I fear that kind of sweeping integration
tests might just make you blind to all
of the kind of open untested edge cases.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah,
I'm glad that you brought this up.
Actually, it reveals to you the fact
that that actually is tested.
Because if it is green then it is tested,
it's covered by the integration test.
And so if you're using the coverage
report as a mechanism for
you to know what you are not testing,
if it's green then your are testing it.
The integration, and
that's one of the nice things about-
>> Speaker 3: [CROSSTALK] testing
the happy path.
>> Kent C. Dodds: That's true, and so
if there are edge cases then those will
normally live in something like if edge
case then do this, and that will be read.
And so then in your unit when you're like,
okay, I wanna make sure
I cover those not happy paths,
then you can add that in as a unit test.
I should also add that it's not a bad
thing to test edge cases with integration
tests.
Sometimes the edge case is best tested
as like a process of several steps.
And so that could make sense as
an integration test as well.
But yeah, in general, if it's green
because of your integration test,
then adding a unit test is not gonna
give you any more confidence because
you already know.
Your integration test would
fail if this code broke, and so
there's no reason to add a unit
test cuz it'll also break.
Yeah, just extra noise.
I also wanna clarify
something that I said.
So if your integration test
is covering some code,
it's not always a bad thing to
also unit test that same code.
Because the integration test, we can say
this is user create, read, update, delete.
But there could be something
that's broken in this process.
And all that it can tell us is,
I can't read a user, but
a unit test could tell us that
a specific part of that is broken.
And so even though you're
covering the same stuff,
sometimes it can actually be
useful to do that anyway.
I would actually, generally,
be happy to over-cover certain areas
of my app that are really, really
critical to my application's success.
And it just helps you come up with
what the problem is more quickly.
The one trade-off with that is when
something breaks, everything breaks and
it's a total nightmare.
And that's one of the things people
don't like about integration and
end to end tests.
They're so easy to break because
they cover so much stuff.
But they cover so much stuff, and
so there are trade-offs there.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 4: So
I think you made a good point earlier,
right, about how integration tests or
tests of compositions of modules,
right, or compositions of units.
And so to that end, right, unit testing
those individual units is additive, right?
Cuz the point is the integration tests
should actually let you combine those
modules in multiple ways and
not break your test, right?
Nonetheless, inside each unit there are,
right, possibly also implementation
details that shouldn't break
unit tests at that level or
at the integration level, right?
But if you're refactoring at
the individual unit level, you still need
that around the unit testing to
tell you that's what broke, right?
So I think when you put it that way
earlier, it kind of makes sense to me in
the context of what you're describing
there, like why the two coexist and
it's not duplicative cuz even
though they cover the same code,
they cover it from different perspectives.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Mm-hm, yeah,
you're thinking more about use cases and
that kinda thing, exactly.